
'\"
'\" The contents of this file are subject to the AOLserver Public License
'\" Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in
'\" compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
'\" http://aolserver.com/.
'\"
'\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"
'\" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See
'\" the License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
'\" under the License.
'\"
'\" The Original Code is AOLserver Code and related documentation
'\" distributed by AOL.
'\" 
'\" The Initial Developer of the Original Code is America Online,
'\" Inc. Portions created by AOL are Copyright (C) 1999 America Online,
'\" Inc. All Rights Reserved.
'\"
'\" Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms
'\" of the GNU General Public License (the "GPL"), in which case the
'\" provisions of GPL are applicable instead of those above.  If you wish
'\" to allow use of your version of this file only under the terms of the
'\" GPL and not to allow others to use your version of this file under the
'\" License, indicate your decision by deleting the provisions above and
'\" replace them with the notice and other provisions required by the GPL.
'\" If you do not delete the provisions above, a recipient may use your
'\" version of this file under either the License or the GPL.
'\" 
'\"
'\" $Header: /Users/dossy/Desktop/cvs/aolserver/doc/Ns_Auth.3,v 1.5 2003/04/10 22:00:30 shmooved Exp $
'\"
'\" 
.so man.macros

.TH Ns_Auth 3 4.0 AOLserver "AOLserver Library Procedures"
.BS
'\" Note:  do not modify the .SH NAME line immediately below!
.SH NAME
Ns_AuthorizeRequest, Ns_AuthorizeUser, Ns_SetRequestAuthorizeProc, Ns_SetUserAuthorizeProc \- URL level HTTP authorization support
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include "ns.h"\fR
.sp
int
\fBNs_AuthorizeRequest\fR(\fIchar *server, char *method, char *url,
        char *user, char *passwd, char *peer\fR)
.sp
int
\fBNs_AuthorizeUser\fR(\fIchar *user, char *passwd\fR)
.sp
void
\fBNs_SetRequestAuthorizeProc\fR(\fIchar *server, Ns_RequestAuthorizeProc *procPtr\fR)
.sp
void
\fBNs_SetUserAuthorizeProc\fR(\fINs_UserAuthorizeProc *procPtr\fR)
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These functions provide a means to create and use your own
authorization mechanisms. They are used by the nsperm module to
provide authentication and authorization of users to specific URLs.
.PP
You can define your own authorization functions. For example, you
might create functions that will authorize a user by their SSL client
certificate and if that fails, then attempt to authorize the user by
username and password.
.TP
\fBNs_AuthorizeRequest\fR(\fIserver, method, url,
        user, passwd, peer\fR)

Used to call the function registered by \fBNs_SetRequestAuthorizeProc \fRto
authorize a user's access to the given method and URL. Possible return
values are:
.IP "" 7
NS_OK - The user's access is authorized
.IP
NS_UNAUTHORIZED - Access is not public for this method or URL and
either the user and password were not verified or the
user does not have permission.
.IP
NS_FORBIDDEN - There is no possible user/password combination that
would give authorization.
.IP
NS_ERROR - The authentication function could not perform the
permission check.

.TP
\fBNs_AuthorizeUser\fR(\fIuser, passwd\fR)

Checks that the cleartext password is correct for the specified
user. Returns NS_OK if it matches or NS_ERROR if it does not match or
if no authorization procedure is registered.

.TP
\fBNs_SetRequestAuthorizeProc\fR(\fIserver, procPtr\fR)

Register the URL request authorization function. This function is
called by \fBNs_AuthorizeRequest\fR and should return one of the four values
give above for \fBNs_AuthorizeRequest\fR.
.TP
\fBNs_SetUserAuthorizeProc\fR(\fIprocPtr\fR)

Register the user authorization function. This function is called by
\fBNs_AuthorizeUser\fR and should return either NS_OK or NS_ERROR.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
nsd(1), info(n)

.SH KEYWORDS

