
'\"
'\" The contents of this file are subject to the AOLserver Public License
'\" Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in
'\" compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
'\" http://aolserver.com/.
'\"
'\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"
'\" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See
'\" the License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
'\" under the License.
'\"
'\" The Original Code is AOLserver Code and related documentation
'\" distributed by AOL.
'\" 
'\" The Initial Developer of the Original Code is America Online,
'\" Inc. Portions created by AOL are Copyright (C) 1999 America Online,
'\" Inc. All Rights Reserved.
'\"
'\" Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms
'\" of the GNU General Public License (the "GPL"), in which case the
'\" provisions of GPL are applicable instead of those above.  If you wish
'\" to allow use of your version of this file only under the terms of the
'\" GPL and not to allow others to use your version of this file under the
'\" License, indicate your decision by deleting the provisions above and
'\" replace them with the notice and other provisions required by the GPL.
'\" If you do not delete the provisions above, a recipient may use your
'\" version of this file under either the License or the GPL.
'\" 
'\"
'\" $Header: /Users/dossy/Desktop/cvs/aolserver/doc/Ns_Adp.3,v 1.5 2003/04/10 22:00:27 shmooved Exp $
'\"
'\" 
.so man.macros

.TH Ns_Adp 3 4.0 AOLserver "AOLserver Library Procedures"
.BS
'\" Note:  do not modify the .SH NAME line immediately below!
.SH NAME
Ns_AdpRegisterParser, Ns_AdpRequest \- Create and use ADP parsers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include "ns.h"\fR
.sp
int
\fBNs_AdpRegisterParser\fR(\fIchar *extension, Ns_AdpParserProc *newParserProc\fR)
.sp
int
\fBNs_AdpRequest\fR(\fIarg, arg\fR)
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These functions register new ADP parsers and run ADP requests.
.TP
\fBNs_AdpRegisterParser\fR(\fIextension, newParserProc\fR)

Registers a new, named ADP parser procedure with the name given in
\fIextension\fR. You can tie a file extension to a particular named
parser in the \fBnsd.tcl\fR file. The \fInewParserProc\fR will be
called when an ADP with the associated file extension needs to be
parsed. If a file extension is registered as an ADP in the
\fBnsd.tcl\fR but no parser is associated with that file extension,
the default ADP parser is used.

The \fInewParserProc\fR must accept two arguments:

typedef void (Ns_AdpParserProc)(Ns_DString *out, char *in);

The ADP input is pointed to by \fIin\fR. Your parser must process the
content of \fIin\fR and append the parsed output to \fIout\fR.

The output should be formatted as a series of concatenated "chunks". A chunk is a
string of the format:

<type character><string><null>

where <type character> = 't' or 's'. A 't' means what follows is HTML and should be
returned directly to the browser. An 's' means what follows is Tcl and should be
evaluated.

After the last chunk there should be an extra <null> character. For example, the "adp"
parser will take a page like this:

This is a test page<%ns_puts hi%>The end<%ns_puts bye%>

And create this output:

"tThis is a test page\\0sns_puts hi\\0tThe end\\0sns_puts bye\\0\\0"
.TP
\fBNs_AdpRequest\fR(\fIconn\fR, \fIfile\fR)

Parse and evaluate an ADP file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nsd(1), info(n)

.SH KEYWORDS

