'\"
'\" The contents of this file are subject to the AOLserver Public License
'\" Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in
'\" compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
'\" http://aolserver.com/.
'\"
'\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"
'\" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See
'\" the License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
'\" under the License.
'\"
'\" The Original Code is AOLserver Code and related documentation
'\" distributed by AOL.
'\" 
'\" The Initial Developer of the Original Code is America Online,
'\" Inc. Portions created by AOL are Copyright (C) 1999 America Online,
'\" Inc. All Rights Reserved.
'\"
'\" Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms
'\" of the GNU General Public License (the "GPL"), in which case the
'\" provisions of GPL are applicable instead of those above.  If you wish
'\" to allow use of your version of this file only under the terms of the
'\" GPL and not to allow others to use your version of this file under the
'\" License, indicate your decision by deleting the provisions above and
'\" replace them with the notice and other provisions required by the GPL.
'\" If you do not delete the provisions above, a recipient may use your
'\" version of this file under either the License or the GPL.
'\" 
'\"
'\" $Header: /Users/dossy/Desktop/cvs/aolserver/doc/Ns_ConnReturnStatus.3,v 1.3 2006/07/07 03:27:22 jgdavidson Exp $
'\"
'\" 
.so man.macros

.TH Ns_ConnReturnStatus 3 4.0 AOLserver "AOLserver Library Procedures"
.BS
'\" Note:  do not modify the .SH NAME line immediately below!
.SH NAME
Ns_ConnReturnBadRequest, Ns_ConnReturnForbidden, Ns_ConnReturnInternalError, Ns_ConnReturnNoResponse, Ns_ConnReturnNotFound, Ns_ConnReturnNotImplemented, Ns_ConnReturnNotModified, Ns_ConnReturnOk, Ns_ConnReturnStatus, Ns_ConnReturnUnauthorized, Ns_RegisterRedirect \- Routines to return simple standard responses
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include "ns.h"\fR
.sp
int
\fBNs_ConnReturnBadRequest\fR(\fIconn, msg\fR)
.sp
int
\fBNs_ConnReturnForbidden\fR(\fIconn\fR)
.sp
int
\fBNs_ConnReturnInternalError\fR(\fIconn\fR)
.sp
int
\fBNs_ConnReturnNoResponse\fR(\fIconn\fR)
.sp
int
\fBNs_ConnReturnNotFound\fR(\fIconn\fR)
.sp
int
\fBNs_ConnReturnNotImplemented\fR(\fIconn\fR)
.sp
int
\fBNs_ConnReturnNotModified\fR(\fIconn\fR)
.sp
int
\fBNs_ConnReturnOk\fR(\fIconn\fR)
.sp
int
\fBNs_ConnReturnStatus\fR(\fIconn, status\fR)
.sp
int
\fBNs_ConnReturnUnauthorized\fR(\fIconn\fR)
.sp
void
\fBNs_RegisterRedirect\fR(\fIserver, status, url\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Ns_Conn conn in
.AP Ns_Conn conn in
Pointer to open connection.
.AP char *msg in
String with additional message text.
.AP int status in
Integer HTTP status code.
.AP char *url in
String which specifies internal redirection url.
.AP char *server in
Virtual server.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These routines are used to generate complete responses, including
headers, approriate status codes, content types, and possibly short
HTML content messages for the most common HTTP error or status
responses.  They each coorespond to a particular HTTP status code,
for example, \fBNs_ConnReturnNotFound\fR generates an HTTP 404 "Not
Found" response.  They all return NS_OK if the response was sent
or NS_ERROR if an underlying routine failed.

.PP
The default behavior is to return an internal, server generated
response possibly with a short English language message, for example
"The requested URL cannot be accessed by this server".  This behavior
can be modified by calling the \fBNs_RegisterRedirect\fR to redirect
responses internally for the cooresponding HTTP status code to
another URL on the server.  The "redirects" server config section
can be used to map these redirects at startup

.TP
int \fBNs_ConnReturnBadRequest\fR(\fIconn, msg\fR)
Returns an HTTP 400 response with the short HTML message "Invalid
Request: The HTTP request presented by your browser is invalid."
The optional \fImsg\fR string, if present, is also included in the
message body.

.TP
int \fBNs_ConnReturnForbidden\fR(\fIconn\fR)
Returns an HTTP 403 response with the short HTML message "Forbidden:
The requested URL cannot be accessed by this server."

.TP
int \fBNs_ConnReturnInternalError\fR(\fIconn\fR)
Returns an HTTP 500 response with the short HTML message "Server
Error: The requested URL cannot be accessed due to a system error
on this server."

.TP
int \fBNs_ConnReturnNoResponse\fR(\fIconn\fR)
Equivalent to \fBNs_ConnReturnStatus\fR(\fIconn, 204\fR).

.TP
int \fBNs_ConnReturnNotFound\fR(\fIconn\fR)
Returns an HTTP 404 response with the short HTML message "Not Found:
The requested URL was not found on this server."

.TP
int \fBNs_ConnReturnNotImplemented\fR(\fIconn\fR)
Returns an HTTP 404 response with the short HTML message "Not
Implemented: The requested URL or method is not implemented by this
server."

.TP
int \fBNs_ConnReturnNotModified\fR(\fIconn\fR)
Equivalent to \fBNs_ConnReturnStatus\fR(\fIconn, 304\fR).

.TP
int \fBNs_ConnReturnOk\fR(\fIconn\fR)
Equivalent to \fBNs_ConnReturnStatus\fR(\fIconn, 200\fR).

.TP
int \fBNs_ConnReturnStatus\fR(\fIconn, status\fR)
Generates a response with the given HTTP \fIstatus\fR with no
content.

.TP
int \fBNs_ConnReturnUnauthorized\fR(\fIconn\fR)
Returns an HTTP 401 response with the short HTML message "Access
Denied: The requested URL cannot be accessed because a valid username
and password are required."  As "WWW-Authenticate: Basic realm=\fIserver
realm\fR" header is also included in the response.

.TP
void \fBNs_RegisterRedirect\fR(\fIserver, status, url\fR)
Redirect the above responses from the given \fIserver\fR for the
given \fIstatus\fR code from the simple internal messages described
above to the given internal \fRurl\fR. The redirect is performed
using \fBNs_ConnRedirect\fR.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Ns_ConnFlush(3), Ns_ConnRedirect(3), Ns_ConnSetRequiredHeaders(3),
Ns_ConnQueueHeaders(3), ns_return(n)

.SH KEYWORDS
connnection, response
