
'\"
'\" The contents of this file are subject to the AOLserver Public License
'\" Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in
'\" compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
'\" http://aolserver.com/.
'\"
'\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"
'\" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See
'\" the License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
'\" under the License.
'\"
'\" The Original Code is AOLserver Code and related documentation
'\" distributed by AOL.
'\" 
'\" The Initial Developer of the Original Code is America Online,
'\" Inc. Portions created by AOL are Copyright (C) 1999 America Online,
'\" Inc. All Rights Reserved.
'\"
'\" Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms
'\" of the GNU General Public License (the "GPL"), in which case the
'\" provisions of GPL are applicable instead of those above.  If you wish
'\" to allow use of your version of this file only under the terms of the
'\" GPL and not to allow others to use your version of this file under the
'\" License, indicate your decision by deleting the provisions above and
'\" replace them with the notice and other provisions required by the GPL.
'\" If you do not delete the provisions above, a recipient may use your
'\" version of this file under either the License or the GPL.
'\" 
'\"
'\" $Header: /Users/dossy/Desktop/cvs/aolserver/doc/Ns_ConnQueueHeaders.3,v 1.1 2006/04/19 17:37:30 jgdavidson Exp $
'\"
'\" 
.so man.macros

.TH Ns_ConnQueueHeaders 3 4.0 AOLserver "AOLserver Library Procedures"
.BS
'\" Note:  do not modify the .SH NAME line immediately below!
.SH NAME
Ns_ConnQueueHeaders, Ns_ConnFlushHeaders \- Routines to construct send HTTP response headers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include "ns.h"\fR
.sp
void
\fBNs_ConnFlushHeaders\fR(\fIconn, status\fR)
.sp
void
\fBNs_ConnQueueHeaders\fR(\fIconn, status\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Ns_Conn conn in
.AP Ns_Conn conn in
Pointer to open connection.
.AP int status in
HTTP response status.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These function format headers pending in the \fIoutputheaders\fR
Ns_Set of the given \fIconn\fR Ns_Conn structure to be sent to the
client.  The headers data along with a preceeding HTTP response
line with the given \fIstatus\fR code (e.g., "HTTP/1.1 200 OK") is
formatted as a single string with \fI\r\n\fR separators between
header \fIkey: value\fR pairs and a trailing \fI\r\n\fR to indicate
end of headers.

.TP
int \fBNs_ConnFlushHeaders\fR(\fIconn\fR)
This routine constructs the headers and then attempts to send them
immediately to the client.  The result is either NS_OK if the content
was sent, NS_ERROR otherwise.

.TP
void \fBNs_ConnQueueHeaders\fR(\fIconn\fR)
This routine constructs the headers as with \fBNs_ConnFlushHeaders\fR
but does not send the data to the client.  Instead, the resulting
headers string is stored in an internal buffer to be sent later on
the first call to \fBNs_ConnSend\fR.  Delaying the flush of the
content helps increase performance by providing the opportunity to
combine the headers and content responses into a single system call.

.PP
Note that higher level routines which generate complete responses
such as the \fBNs_ConnReturn\fR routines or \fBNs_ConnFlush\fR call
\fBNs_ConnQueueHeaders\fR automatically as needed.  Only custom
code which constructs headers manually and sends content directly
must include a call to \fBNs_ConnQueueHeaders\fR or
\fBNs_ConnFlushHeaders\fR before generating the output content.

.SH EXAMPLES
The following example demonstrates a simple response.  In this case,
the headers are queued and sent with the small "hello" message on
the call to \fBNs_ConnPuts\fR which internally calls \fBNs_ConnSend\fR:

.CS
	Ns_ConnSetRequiredHeaders(conn, "text/plain", 5);
	Ns_ConnQueueHeaders(conn, 200);
	Ns_ConnPuts(conn, "hello");
.CE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Ns_ConnSetHeaders(3), Ns_ConnSend(3)

.SH KEYWORDS
connection, headers
