'\"
'\" The contents of this file are subject to the AOLserver Public License
'\" Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in
'\" compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
'\" http://aolserver.com/.
'\"
'\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"
'\" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See
'\" the License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
'\" under the License.
'\"
'\" The Original Code is AOLserver Code and related documentation
'\" distributed by AOL.
'\" 
'\" The Initial Developer of the Original Code is America Online,
'\" Inc. Portions created by AOL are Copyright (C) 1999 America Online,
'\" Inc. All Rights Reserved.
'\"
'\" Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms
'\" of the GNU General Public License (the "GPL"), in which case the
'\" provisions of GPL are applicable instead of those above.  If you wish
'\" to allow use of your version of this file only under the terms of the
'\" GPL and not to allow others to use your version of this file under the
'\" License, indicate your decision by deleting the provisions above and
'\" replace them with the notice and other provisions required by the GPL.
'\" If you do not delete the provisions above, a recipient may use your
'\" version of this file under either the License or the GPL.
'\" 
'\"
'\" $Header: /Users/dossy/Desktop/cvs/aolserver/doc/Ns_ConnReturnData.3,v 1.1 2006/04/19 17:37:30 jgdavidson Exp $
'\"
'\" 
.so man.macros

.TH Ns_ConnReturnData 3 4.0 AOLserver "AOLserver Library Procedures"
.BS
'\" Note:  do not modify the .SH NAME line immediately below!
.SH NAME
Ns_ConnReturnAdminNotice, Ns_ConnReturnData, Ns_ConnReturnHtml, Ns_ConnReturnNotice \- Routines to generate simple single-buffer responses
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include "ns.h"\fR
int
\fBNs_ConnReturnAdminNotice\fR(\fIconn, status, title, msg\fR)
.sp
int
\fBNs_ConnReturnData\fR(\fIconn, status, data, len, type\fR)
.sp
int
\fBNs_ConnReturnCharData\fR(\fIconn, status, data, len, type\fR)
.sp
int
\fBNs_ConnReturnHtml\fR(\fIconn, status, msg, len\fR)
.sp
int
\fBNs_ConnReturnNotice\fR(\fIconn, status, title, msg\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Ns_Conn conn in
.AP Ns_Conn conn in
Pointer to open connection.
.AP int status in
HTTP response status code.
.AP char *type in
Output content type.
.AP char *title in
Pointer to HTML page title string.
.AP int len in
Length of content buffer.
.AP char *data in
Pointer to content buffer.
.AP char *msg in
Pointer to HTML message buffer.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These routines are used to generate complete responses, including
headers, status codes, content types, and the requested data.  They
all return a status code which is NS_OK if the response was sent
or NS_ERROR if an underlying call to sent the content failed.

.TP
int \fBNs_ConnReturnAdminNotice\fR(\fIconn, status, title, msg\fR)
This routine is equivalent to \fBNs_ConnReturnNotice\fR. In prior
versions, it would format a slightly different response which was
later considered inconsequential.

.TP
int \fBNs_ConnReturnData\fR(\fIconn, status, data, len, type\fR)
Generates a reponse with the given HTTP \fIstatus\fR including a
\fIcontent-type\fR header with the given \fItype\fR.  Content pointed
to by the \fIdata\fR argument of length \fIlen\fR is then sent
without any modification via an underlying call to
\fBNs_ConnFlushDirect\fR.

.TP
int \fBNs_ConnReturnCharData\fR(\fIconn, status, data, len, type\fR)
Generates a response as with \fBNs_ConnReturnData\fR except that
the given content pointed to by \fIdata\fR is assumed to be a text
stream which is output encoded using the appropriate Tcl_Encoding
based on the given \fItype\fR mimetype and possibly gzip compressed
via an underlying call to \fBNs_ConnFlush\fR.

.TP
int \fBNs_ConnReturnHtml\fR(\fIconn, status, msg, len\fR)
This is equivalent to \fBNs_ConnReturnCharData\fR(\fIconn, status,
msg, len, "text/html"\fR).

.TP
int \fBNs_ConnReturnNotice\fR(\fIconn, status, title, msg\fR)
Constructs a basic HTML response and sends it via \fBNs_ConnReturnHtml\fR.
The \fItitle\fR string is placed both in the <head> portion as well
as an <h2> tag in the <body> portion of the document.  If the title
is NULL, it defaults to the string "Server Message".  The \fImsg\fR
string, if not NULL, follows the body and is copied unaltered.  This
routine is useful for generating very basic responses.  For example,
it is used by the various builtin reponse routines such as
\fBNs_ConnReturnUnauthorized\fR.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Ns_ConnFlush(3), Ns_ConnReturnFile, Ns_ConnReturnOpenFd, Ns_ConnReturnUnathorized.

.SH KEYWORDS
connnection, encoding, response
