'\"
'\" The contents of this file are subject to the AOLserver Public License
'\" Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in
'\" compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
'\" http://aolserver.com/.
'\"
'\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"
'\" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See
'\" the License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
'\" under the License.
'\"
'\" The Original Code is AOLserver Code and related documentation
'\" distributed by AOL.
'\" 
'\" The Initial Developer of the Original Code is America Online,
'\" Inc. Portions created by AOL are Copyright (C) 1999 America Online,
'\" Inc. All Rights Reserved.
'\"
'\" Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms
'\" of the GNU General Public License (the "GPL"), in which case the
'\" provisions of GPL are applicable instead of those above.  If you wish
'\" to allow use of your version of this file only under the terms of the
'\" GPL and not to allow others to use your version of this file under the
'\" License, indicate your decision by deleting the provisions above and
'\" replace them with the notice and other provisions required by the GPL.
'\" If you do not delete the provisions above, a recipient may use your
'\" version of this file under either the License or the GPL.
'\" 
'\"
'\" $Header: /Users/dossy/Desktop/cvs/aolserver/doc/Ns_Config.3,v 1.6 2005/07/18 23:34:06 jgdavidson Exp $
'\"
'\" 
.so man.macros

.TH Ns_Config 3 4.0 AOLserver "AOLserver Library Procedures"
.BS
'\" Note:  do not modify the .SH NAME line immediately below!
.SH NAME
Ns_ConfigGetBool, Ns_ConfigGetInt, Ns_ConfigGetInt64, Ns_ConfigGetPath, 
Ns_ConfigGetSection, Ns_ConfigGetSections, Ns_ConfigGetValue, 
.br
Ns_ConfigGetValueExact \- Extract information from the server configuration files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include "ns.h"\fR
.sp
int
\fBNs_ConfigGetBool\fR(\fIchar *section, char *key, int *valuePtr\fR)
.sp
int
\fBNs_ConfigGetInt\fR(\fIchar *section, char *key, int *valuePtr\fR)
.sp
int
\fBNs_ConfigGetInt64\fR(\fIchar *section, char *key, INT64 *valuePtr\fR)
.sp
char *
\fBNs_ConfigGetPath\fR(\fIchar *server, char *module, ...\fR)
.sp
Ns_Set *
\fBNs_ConfigGetSection\fR(\fIchar *section\fR)
.sp
Ns_Set **
\fBNs_ConfigGetSections\fR(\fIvoid\fR)
.sp
char *
\fBNs_ConfigGetValue\fR(\fIchar *section, char *key\fR)
.sp
char *
\fBNs_ConfigGetValueExact\fR(\fIchar *section, char *key\fR)
.BE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These functions allow you to extract information from the server 
config files. 
.TP
\fBNs_ConfigGetBool\fR(\fIsection, key, valuePtr\fR)

Examines key in section and returns NS_TRUE for values 1, y, yes, on,
t, or true, case insensitive, and sets valuePtr to 1.  Returns
NS_FALSE for values 0, n, no, off, f, false, case insensitive, and
sets valuePtr to 0.
.TP
\fBNs_ConfigGetInt\fR(\fIsection, key, valuePtr\fR)

Examines key in section and attempts to convert to an integer value.
On success, returns NS_TRUE, otherwise NS_FALSE. The value of the
integer is placed into valuePtr.
.TP
\fBNs_ConfigGetInt64\fR(\fIsection, key, valuePtr\fR)

Like Ns_ConfigGetInt, but with INT64 data instead of system-native int
types.  This function isn't available on WIN32.
.TP
\fBNs_ConfigGetPath\fR(\fIserver, module, ...\fR)

Get the full name of a config file section if it exists. Returns a
pointer to to an ASCIIZ string of the full path name, or NULL if that
path is not in the config file. The \fIserver\fR and/or \fImodule\fR
parameters may be NULL and must be followed a variable list of
additional parameters, the last element of which must be NULL.
.sp
Examples:
.br
Ns_ConfigGetPath("server1", "nscp", NULL)
.br
\ returns  "ns/server/server1/module/nscp"
.br
Ns_ConfigGetPath("server1", "nscp", "users", NULL)
.br
\ returns  "ns/server/server1/module/nscp/users"
.br
Ns_ConfigGetPath(NULL, "globalmod", "subsect1", "subsect2", NULL)
.br
\ returns  "ns/module/globalmod/subsect1/subsect2"
.TP
\fBNs_ConfigGetSection\fR(\fIsection\fR)

Returns an Ns_Set of the section's parameters, or NULL if the section
does not exist.
.TP
\fBNs_ConfigGetSections\fR()

Returns a pointer to an array of pointers to Ns_Sets, one for each
config section. The result is a malloc'ed copy of the config sections.
.TP
\fBNs_ConfigGetValue\fR(\fIsection, key\fR)

Returns a pointer to the value of the key in section, or NULL if the
key doesn't exist.
.TP
\fBNs_ConfigGetValueExact\fR(\fIsection, key\fR)

Case sensitive equivalent of Ns_ConfigGetValue. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nsd(1), info(n)

.SH KEYWORDS

