
'\"
'\" The contents of this file are subject to the AOLserver Public License
'\" Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in
'\" compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
'\" http://aolserver.com/.
'\"
'\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"
'\" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See
'\" the License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
'\" under the License.
'\"
'\" The Original Code is AOLserver Code and related documentation
'\" distributed by AOL.
'\" 
'\" The Initial Developer of the Original Code is America Online,
'\" Inc. Portions created by AOL are Copyright (C) 1999 America Online,
'\" Inc. All Rights Reserved.
'\"
'\" Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms
'\" of the GNU General Public License (the "GPL"), in which case the
'\" provisions of GPL are applicable instead of those above.  If you wish
'\" to allow use of your version of this file only under the terms of the
'\" GPL and not to allow others to use your version of this file under the
'\" License, indicate your decision by deleting the provisions above and
'\" replace them with the notice and other provisions required by the GPL.
'\" If you do not delete the provisions above, a recipient may use your
'\" version of this file under either the License or the GPL.
'\" 
'\"
'\" $Header: /Users/dossy/Desktop/cvs/aolserver/doc/Ns_ConnRedirect.3,v 1.1 2006/04/19 17:37:30 jgdavidson Exp $
'\"
'\" 
.so man.macros

.TH Ns_ConnReturn 3 4.0 AOLserver "AOLserver Library Procedures"
.BS
'\" Note:  do not modify the .SH NAME line immediately below!
.SH NAME
Ns_ConnRedirect \- Internally redirect a request to a new local url
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include "ns.h"\fR
.sp
int
\fBNs_ConnRedirect\fR(\fIconn, url\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Ns_Conn conn in
.AP Ns_Conn conn in
Pointer to open connection.
.AP char *url in
Pointer to string of local url.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This routine can be used to internally redirect to a new, local url
on the server.  The \fIurl\fR paramter specifies a path relative
to the server, i.e., without the leading "http://host:port" portion.
The server will reset the Ns_Request structure in the open connection
pointed to by \fIconn\fR and restart connection handling, including
authorization checks.  The result is a standard AOLserver request
procedure result code, either from an underlying call to
\fBNs_ConnRunRequest\fR or the result of one of the authorization
response routines such as \fBNs_ConnReturnForbidden\fR.  Filter
callbacks, if any, are not run again with the updated connection.

.PP
The \fBNs_ConnRedirect\fR routine is used internally in the server
to support the basic file serving code (i.e., "fastpath") to redirect
to specific files when a directory is opened and by the
\fBNs_RegisterRedirect\fR routine to map standard reponse routines
to user-provided local url's.

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
The following example demonstrates redirecting to an ADP help page
within a custom C-level request callback whenever a ?help=topic
query argument is present:

.CS
	int
	MyRequest(void *arg, Ns_Conn *conn)
	{
		Ns_Set *query = Ns_ConnGetQuery(conn);

		/* Redirect to help.adp for /myrequest?help=topic calls. */
		if (Ns_SetGet(query, "help")) != NULL) {
			return Ns_ConnReturnRedirect(conn, "/help.adp");
		}
		...  handle non-help requests ...
	}

.CE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Ns_RegisterRedirct(3), Ns_ConnRunRequest(3), Ns_AuthorizeRequest(3)

.SH KEYWORDS
connection, redirect
