
'\"
'\" The contents of this file are subject to the AOLserver Public License
'\" Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in
'\" compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
'\" http://aolserver.com/.
'\"
'\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"
'\" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See
'\" the License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
'\" under the License.
'\"
'\" The Original Code is AOLserver Code and related documentation
'\" distributed by AOL.
'\" 
'\" The Initial Developer of the Original Code is America Online,
'\" Inc. Portions created by AOL are Copyright (C) 1999 America Online,
'\" Inc. All Rights Reserved.
'\"
'\" Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms
'\" of the GNU General Public License (the "GPL"), in which case the
'\" provisions of GPL are applicable instead of those above.  If you wish
'\" to allow use of your version of this file only under the terms of the
'\" GPL and not to allow others to use your version of this file under the
'\" License, indicate your decision by deleting the provisions above and
'\" replace them with the notice and other provisions required by the GPL.
'\" If you do not delete the provisions above, a recipient may use your
'\" version of this file under either the License or the GPL.
'\" 
'\"
'\" $Header: /Users/dossy/Desktop/cvs/aolserver/doc/Ns_Mime.3,v 1.5 2003/04/10 22:00:46 shmooved Exp $
'\"
'\" 
.so man.macros

.TH Ns_Mime 3 4.0 AOLserver "AOLserver Library Procedures"
.BS
'\" Note:  do not modify the .SH NAME line immediately below!
.SH NAME
Ns_GetMimeType \- Return the MIME type of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include "ns.h"\fR
.sp
char *
\fBNs_GetMimeType\fR(\fIchar *file\fR)
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
\fBNs_GetMimeType\fR(\fIfile\fR)

The \fBNs_GetMimeType\fR function uses the extension of \fIfile\fR and
looks up the associated MIME type stored internally in the
server. Case is ignored. The return value is of the form "text/html".

AOLserver has a set of predefined file extension to MIME type
associations. You can add to these associations by defining file
extension to MIME type associations in the server configuration file
in the ns/mimetypes section. If you define a file extension that
already exists in the server, that file extension and MIME type
association will be replaced with yours.

If no MIME type association exists for a particular file extension, or
there is no file extension, the default and noextension MIME types are
returned, respectively. These default to "*/*" but can be set in the
server configuration file.

Here is an example ns/mimetypes section from the server configuration file:

.CS
ns_section "ns/mimetypes"
ns_param   ".doc"          "application/msword"
ns_param   ".ppt"          "application/vnd.ms-powerpoint"
ns_param   ".xls"          "application/vnd.ms-excel"
ns_param   ".cab"          "application/mscabinet"
ns_param   ".frl"          "application/x-perfpro"
ns_param   ".max"          "application/vviewer"
ns_param   ".mif"          "application/x-mif"
ns_param   ".frz"          "application/x-dffill"
ns_param   ".asvg"         "image/svg-xml"
ns_param   ".asvgz"        "image/svg-xml"
ns_param   ".svg"          "image/svg-xml"
ns_param   ".svgz"         "image/svg-xml"
ns_param   default         "*/*"
ns_param   noextension     "*/*"
.CE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
nsd(1), info(n)

.SH KEYWORDS
