'\"
'\" The contents of this file are subject to the AOLserver Public License
'\" Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in
'\" compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
'\" http://aolserver.com/.
'\"
'\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"
'\" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See
'\" the License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
'\" under the License.
'\"
'\" The Original Code is AOLserver Code and related documentation
'\" distributed by AOL.
'\" 
'\" The Initial Developer of the Original Code is America Online,
'\" Inc. Portions created by AOL are Copyright (C) 1999 America Online,
'\" Inc. All Rights Reserved.
'\"
'\" Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms
'\" of the GNU General Public License (the "GPL"), in which case the
'\" provisions of GPL are applicable instead of those above.  If you wish
'\" to allow use of your version of this file only under the terms of the
'\" GPL and not to allow others to use your version of this file under the
'\" License, indicate your decision by deleting the provisions above and
'\" replace them with the notice and other provisions required by the GPL.
'\" If you do not delete the provisions above, a recipient may use your
'\" version of this file under either the License or the GPL.
'\" 
'\"
'\" $Header: /Users/dossy/Desktop/cvs/aolserver/doc/Ns_RegisterConnCleanup.3,v 1.1 2009/12/08 04:13:18 jgdavidson Exp $
'\"
'\" 
.so man.macros

.TH Ns_Cleanup 3 4.5 AOLserver "AOLserver Library Procedures"
.BS
'\" Note:  do not modify the .SH NAME line immediately below!
.SH NAME
Ns_RegisterCleanup, Ns_RegisterConnCleanup \- manage connection cleanup callbacks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include "ns.h"\fR
.sp
void
\fBNs_RegisterCleanup\fR(\fINs_TraceProc *proc, void *arg\fR)
.sp
void
\fBNs_RegisterConnCleanup\fR(\fIchar *server, Ns_TraceProc *proc, void *arg\fR)

.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Ns_TraceProc *proc
.AP char *server in
Name of virtual server.

.AP void *arg in
Arbitrary one-word value to pass to \fIproc\fR.

.AP Ns_TraceProc *proc in
Procedure to invoke at the end of connection processing.

.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These routines manage callbacks which are invoked in LIFO order at the
end of a conneciton.

.PP
At the end of a connection, regardless of success or error, \fIproc\fR
will be invoked.  It should have arguments and result that match
the type \fBNs_TraceProc\fR:
.sp
.CS
typedef void (Ns_TraceProc)(void \fIarg\fR, Ns_Conn *\fIconn\fR);
.CE
.sp
The \fIarg\fR will have the same values as passed to
\fBNs_RegisterConnCleanup\fR when the callback was created.  The
\fIconn\fR will be a pointer to the current connection.  The
\fIproc\fR may perform any actions necessary to free resources which
may have been allocated and initalized in the course of the connection.

.PP
\fBNs_RegisterCleanup\fR is equivalent to \fBNs_RegisterConnCleanup\fR
with the \fIserver\fR argument set to the currently initializing
server.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Ns_RegisterFilter(3), Ns_RegisterServerTrace(3)

.SH KEYWORDS
trace, callback, cleanup
