
'\"
'\" The contents of this file are subject to the AOLserver Public License
'\" Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in
'\" compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
'\" http://aolserver.com/.
'\"
'\" Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"
'\" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See
'\" the License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
'\" under the License.
'\"
'\" The Original Code is AOLserver Code and related documentation
'\" distributed by AOL.
'\" 
'\" The Initial Developer of the Original Code is America Online,
'\" Inc. Portions created by AOL are Copyright (C) 1999 America Online,
'\" Inc. All Rights Reserved.
'\"
'\" Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms
'\" of the GNU General Public License (the "GPL"), in which case the
'\" provisions of GPL are applicable instead of those above.  If you wish
'\" to allow use of your version of this file only under the terms of the
'\" GPL and not to allow others to use your version of this file under the
'\" License, indicate your decision by deleting the provisions above and
'\" replace them with the notice and other provisions required by the GPL.
'\" If you do not delete the provisions above, a recipient may use your
'\" version of this file under either the License or the GPL.
'\" 
'\"
'\" $Header: /Users/dossy/Desktop/cvs/aolserver/doc/Ns_TempFile.3,v 1.2 2009/12/08 04:13:18 jgdavidson Exp $
'\"
'\" 
.so man.macros

.TH Ns_GetTemp 3 4.5 AOLserver "AOLserver Library Procedures"
.BS
'\" Note:  do not modify the .SH NAME line immediately below!
.SH NAME
Ns_GetTemp, Ns_ReleaseTemp \- routines for efficient open temp files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include "ns.h"\fR
.sp
int
\fBNs_GetTemp\fR(\fIvoid\fR)
.sp
void
\fBNs_ReleaseTemp\fR(\int fd\fR)
.AS int fd
.AP int fd in
File descriptor for open temp file returned from a prior call to \fBNs_GetTemp\fR.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fBNs_GetTemp\fR and \fBNs_Release\fR routines provide a means to efficiently
use open temporary files when necessary to handle data too large for in-memory
structures or to facilitate passing content to forked processes.  The
approach is to leave some files open when not in use, avoiding comparably expensive
\fBcreat\fR and \fBclose\fR system calls in favor of quick \fBftruncate\fR's.
The server uses this interface internally to support large-content uploads into
temp files (see \fBNs_ConnContentFd\fR) and to support the open files needed
to send content to and from CGI's.

.TP
int \fBNs_GetTemp(void)\fR
To use a temporary file, call \fBNs_GetTemp\fR. The result will be a a file
descriptor to an empty file opened in read+write mode located in a 
server-configure temporary location.  If no more files can be opened, the result
is -1.  The open file descriptor can then be used to write content, seek to any
location, and read back bytes.  When no longer needed, the file descriptor
can be released by passing it to \fBNs_ReleaseTemp\fR.
.sp
An open file returned by \fBNs_GetTemp\fR may also be used with a higher-level
buffering API, e.g. \fBfdopen\fR to get an open \fIFILE *\fR object.  In the case
it is inconvenient or not possible to later disassociate the open file descriptor,
the API's close routine (e.g., \fBfclose\fR) can be called instead of
\fBNs_ReleaseTemp\fR.  While the temp file cannot be efficient re-used in this case, 
such usage will not lead to any underlying resource leaks or corruption.
.sp
Note that the actual underlying file cannot be accessed by name outside of the
running server.  On Unix, the files are deleted just after open for the first
time and on Windows the \fI_SH_DENYRW\fR flag inhibits sharing. This is done
both to ensure cleanup at server shutdown or failure and also provides a security benefit, inhibiting other processes from being able to view the content 
temporarily stored in the files.

.TP
void \fBNs_ReleaseTemp(int fd)\fR
\fBNs_ReleaseTemp\fR returns an open file descriptor to a cache for re-use,
first truncating any data which may be present.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Ns_ConnContentFd(3)

.SH KEYWORDS
file